In a decision that will affect the lives of millions of women, the Supreme Court on Friday overturned the landmark Roe v. Wade decision that established the right to an abortion. The ruling was expected to trigger strict limits or bans on the procedure in half of U.S. states, in some places immediately. Here's how America reacted to the news. In this photo, protesters on both sides of the issue face off outside the Supreme Court building in Washington, D.C. after the decision came down. Emma, 19, an abortion-rights supporter, cries while executive director of Right to Life Amy Gehrke speaks during a rally at Federal Plaza in Chicago on Friday, June 24, 2022, after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. The ruling ended constitutional protections for abortion that had been in place nearly 50 years. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, a Republican from Georgia, speaks to the media outside the Supreme Court after the ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. The case overturns the landmark abortion Roe v. Wade decision. "We're just rejoicing in the wonderful news," she said. Protesters placed cardboard cutouts in the likeness of the conservative U.S. Supreme Court justices along a security fence outside the court building in Washington, D.C., on June 24, 2022, ahead of the decision that would overturn Roe v. Wade. Justice Samuel Alito, in his majority opinion, wrote: "Roe was egregiously wrong from the start." Activist and writer Laurie Penny addresses a crowd during a protest the U.S. Embassy in London. "So much for the land of the free," she tweeted. Abortion rights demonstrators gather outside the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., on June 24, 2022. Here, a protester wears tape across their mouth with the words, "2nd class citizen." Rise4AbortionLA members protest the Roe v. Wade decision at a protest outside the federal courthouse in Los Angeles on Friday, June 24, 2022. Governor Gavin Newsom signed legislation aimed at protecting women, doctors and others who assist with abortions from civil lawsuits from other states. An abortion-rights demonstrator wears a mask outside the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., on Friday, June 24, 2022. The court was deeply divided on the issue of abortion. In their dissent, Justices Breyer, Sotomayor and Kagan wrote of Roe: "Respecting a woman as an autonomous being, and granting her full equality, meant giving her substantial choice over this most personal and most consequential of all life decisions." In a speech Friday, hours after the Supreme Court issued its landmark ruling, President Biden declared it a "very solemn moment." "This decision must not be the final word," he said, urging Americans to vote for legislators who will protect abortion rights. "This is not over," he vowed. A woman rests next to anti-abortion posters in front of the U.S. Supreme Court after it announced its ruling in the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization case. Anti-abortion activists considered the decision a victory that many had been fighting for for years. Rep. Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California, speaks to abortion-rights activists after the announcement of the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization ruling, overturning Roe. She appeared in front of the Supreme Court on June 24, 2022 in Washington, D.C. An abortion-rights activist cries outside the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., following the ruling. The court ended the right to abortion in a seismic ruling that overturned half a century of precedent. An activist holds a sign as thousands of abortion-rights activists gather in front of the U.S. Supreme Court on the day of the decision. An abortion opponent holds a sign borrowing from an American Revolutionary War-era slogan, but adding the image of a fetus. Activists on both sides gathered outside the Supreme Court after the decision overturning Roe vs. Wade, on June 24, 2022. An abortion-rights demonstrator sobs outside the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., on Friday, June 24, 2022. A deeply divided Supreme Court overturned the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision and wiped out the constitutional right to abortion, a historic ruling likely to render the procedure largely illegal in half the country. Anti-abortion demonstrators celebrate the end of Roe v. Wade outside the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., on June 24, 2022. The conservative-dominated court overturned the 1973 ruling that enshrined a woman's right to an abortion, leaving it up to individual states to either permit or restrict the procedure themselves. Senator Elizabeth Warren addresses the public during a rally to protest the Supreme Court's overturning of Roe v. Wade. She appeared at the Massachusetts State House in Boston on June 24, 2022. Anti-abortion activists celebrate in response to the Dobbs v Jackson Women's Health Organization ruling, which overturned Roe v. Wade, in front of the U.S. Supreme Court on June 24, 2022. A woman becomes emotional during a rally to protest the Supreme Court's overturning of Roe v. Wade, at the Massachusetts State House in Boston on June 24, 2022. A woman holds up a sign to protest the Supreme Court's ruling on abortion at a protest outside the federal courthouse in Los Angeles on Friday, June 24, 2022. The Court's conservative majority overturned constitutional protections for abortion that had been in place nearly 50 years. Anti-abortion protesters celebrate following the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, and end the federally protected right to abortion, in Washington, D.C., on Friday, June 24, 2022. An abortion-rights activist reacts after the announcement of the Supreme Court's decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Demonstrators for and against abortion rights gathered in front of the Supreme Court building in Washington, D.C., on June 24, 2022. People gather at New York City's Washington Square Park to protest against the the Supreme Court's decision overturning Roe v. Wade, on June 24, 2022. The ruling against abortion rights came the day after the Supreme Court issued a decision expanding gun rights, throwing out New York's concealed carry regulations. An abortion rights supporter yells at speakers during a "Right to Life" rally at Federal Plaza in Chicago on Friday, June 24, 2022, after the Supreme Court issued its decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Vice President Kamala Harris speaks about the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe vs. Wade, in Plainfield, Illinois, on June 24, 2022. "This is a health-care crisis," she said. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas, speaks to abortion-rights activists after the announcement of the Supreme Court's ruling. The decision in the case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization rejected constitutional protections for abortion rights, leaving states free to restrict or ban the procedure, Anti-abortion activist Madelyn Ocasio poses with a placard outside of her house after the ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. She is in Miami, Florida. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat from New York, speaks to abortion-rights activists outside the Supreme Court on June 24, 2022. The Court's decision in Dobbs v, Jackson Women's Health overturns the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade case and erases a federal right to an abortion. Abortion-rights activist Ali Stovall is comforted in front of the Supreme Court on June 24, 2022. The Court's decision in Dobbs v Jackson Women's Health overturns the landmark Roe v. Wade case and erases a federal right to an abortion. An abortion-rights protester and an anti-abortion protester face off following the Supreme Court's decision. The justices' ruling upheld a Mississippi law, enacted by the GOP-led legislature in 2018, that banned abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. An anti-abortion activist holds a sign outside the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., on June 24, 2022. Members of the "New Wave Feminists" group describe themselves as a "pro-life feminist" organization. People march past the U.S. Capitol to join protesters at the Supreme Court following the court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade in Washington, D.C., on Friday, June 24, 2022. An abortion-rights supporter holds a sign as speakers address the audience during an anti-abortion rally at Federal Plaza in Chicago on Friday, June 24, 2022. "Fash" is used as slang for "fascist." A woman holds up a bandana saying "aborto libre" as people protest following the Supreme Court's decision. A case with different sizes of plastic fetuses is seen at the National Right To Life Convention on June 24, 2022 in Atlanta, Georgia. The convention gathered as the Supreme Court issued its historic ruling. Abortion-rights protesters regroup following the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. This sign accuses the Court of having "blood on your hands," presumably from women who will die after botched, illegal abortions. Abortion-rights protesters gather following Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, in Washington, D.C., on Friday, June 24, 2022. This sign reads, "Pro life is a lie. They don't care when people die." Abortion-rights advocate Eleanor Wells, 34, wipes her tears during a protest in Los Angeles on Friday, June 24, 2022. The Supreme Court ruling ended constitutional protections for abortion that had been in place nearly 50 years. Tifanny Burks holds Novah Smith, 2, with a placard saying "Abortion is health care." Members of the Florida Planned Parenthood PAC demonstrated in Miami on June 24, 2022. Amy Gehrke, executive director of Illinois Right To Life, speaks during a rally at Federal Plaza in Chicago on Friday, June 24, 2022. She spoke after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade.