The House select committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol will hold the third in a series of public hearings on Thursday beginning at 1 p.m. ET. CBS News will broadcast the hearing as a Special Report. Committee vice chair Rep. Liz Cheney tweeted a preview of the hearing, saying it would be focused on "President Trump's relentless effort on Jan. 6 and in the days beforehand to pressure Vice President Pence to refuse to count lawful electoral votes." Pence's former counsel Greg Jacob is scheduled to appear. Cheney also showed a video clip of testimony of Trump White House lawyer Eric Herschmann speaking about a conversation he had with Trump-allied legal adviser John Eastman on Jan. 7, 2021 — the day after the riot. Herschmann said Eastman mentioned something about Georgia and preserving something for appeal, and Herschmann said he replied, "Are you out of your f-ing mind? I said I only want to hear two words coming out of your mouth from now on: Orderly transition." Herschmann added that he told Eastman, "'Now I'm going to give you the best free legal advice you're ever going to get in your life: Get a great f-ing criminal defense lawyer, you're going to need it.' And then I hung up on him." The inclusion of the Herschmann clip suggests Thursday's hearing will take a look at Eastman's role. CBS News has obtained records showing Eastman pushed the Pennsylvania House of Representatives to help overturn President Joe Biden's victory in the state and send "an alternate slate of electors" for Trump. Cheney said in her opening statement last week that the committee will present email exchanges between Eastman and Jacob, the Pence attorney. "Jacob said this to Mr. Eastman: 'Thanks to your bullsh**, we are under siege,'" Cheney said. What was scheduled to be the third hearing Wednesday was postponed on Tuesday, the committee said. There was some uncertainty behind the reason for the delay. Committee member Rep. Zoe Lofgren said the delay was due to "tech issues" with the staff putting together the video presentation. But a committee spokesperson said the postponement was "due to a number of scheduling factors, including production timeline and availability of members and witnesses." Meanwhile, committee member Rep. Pete Aguilar said Tuesday that the schedule has "always been fluid." The committee has two more public hearings scheduled: Tuesday, June 21 at 1 p.m. ET and Thursday, June 23 at 1 p.m. ET.  There is another expected to be announced.