A suspect has been arrested in this week's fatal shooting of a man on a San Francisco subway train, police announced Friday. Javon Green, 26, was arrested Thursday in Pittsburg, a city about 40 miles east of San Francisco, after police released photos of a man they described as a person of interest in the case, said Officer Kathryn Winters, a spokesperson with the San Francisco Police Department. Anyone with information about the person of interest was asked to contact authorities. Winters said tips from "inside and outside the law enforcement community" helped officials identify Green. Green was booked into San Francisco's jail minutes after midnight Friday, according to jail records. He faces charges of homicide, carrying a concealed firearm and using a firearm in the commission of a felony. It wasn't immediately known if Green had an attorney who could speak on his behalf. Police did not respond to a question about whether he has retained an attorney. The shooting happened Wednesday morning on a crowded train on the city's public transit system, known as Muni. Nesta Bowen, 27, was killed, and a wounded 70-year-old man was taken to a hospital with injuries and later released. Winters said police believe there was a confrontation between Green and Bowen before the shooting. She added that she didn't know if Green and Bowen knew each other and that a motive in the shooting has not been determined. After the train stopped in the Castro neighborhood, which is internationally known for its LGBTQ activism, Green ran out of the train along with terrified passengers, Winters said. Winters reiterated that the shooting was not connected to upcoming Pride events. Nevertheless, the shooting cast a shadow over the celebrations at a time when members of the LGBTQ community are experiencing heightened threats, including protests at libraries where drag queens read to children. Winters said the police department is going to be fully staffed throughout Pride weekend and that officers will give extra attention to train stations. "As we go into Pride weekend, we know there's a number of events throughout the city. We are going to have officers on hand at all of the events," Winters said.