Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is considering a run for president as he travels around the country supporting Republican candidates in 2022 midterm races. "We're doing the kinds of things one might do, at least as we see it, to get ready for that moment," Pompeo said. "But it doesn't mean we've made our decision." On "The Takeout" podcast this week, Pompeo told CBS News chief Washington correspondent Major Garrett that the operation he's using to campaign for candidates this fall would form the infrastructure of a presidential campaign, should he choose to run. "You can't do it from a standing start," he said. Pompeo downplayed the potential impact of former President Donald Trump on the race if he chooses to run, saying that it "won't make any difference" to his own decision. Pompeo admitted it would cause some discomfort to run against his former boss and speculated that it would also make Trump uncomfortable. "If you think you're the right person and everything else lines up, you ought to go do it and then let the American people sort it out," he said. However, were Trump to win the 2024 nomination, Pompeo said he would not only support him but he'd also gladly serve in his administration again, if asked. "If I think I can help the team and make a difference and deliver on the things that matter to me and my family and to our country, I'm confident that I wouldn't turn down that duty." That doesn't mean Trump hasn't made mistakes, Pompeo said. He thinks the former president bears responsibility "on some level" for the assault on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Even so, Pompeo, who was at the State Department that day, does not believe Trump's involvement warranted attempts to oust him from office using the 25th Amendment. In fact, he denies there were any serious talks about that among Trump administration Cabinet officials, despite previous reporting that he discussed the matter with Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. "I never had a serious conversation about the 25th Amendment with anyone," Pompeo said. "It did not happen." Had Pompeo thought it necessary to remove the former president from office, he said he "would have instigated the conversation." Highlights: Executive producer: Arden Farhi Producers: Jamie Benson, Jacob Rosen, Sara Cook and Eleanor Watson CBSN Production: Eric Soussanin Show email: TakeoutPodcast@cbsnews.comTwitter: @TakeoutPodcastInstagram: @TakeoutPodcastFacebook: Facebook.com/TakeoutPodcast