Washington — The House committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol turned its attention to former President Donald Trump's campaign to pressure former Vice President Mike Pence to reject electoral votes, hearing testimony on Thursday from close Pence aides who said the proposal to overturn the 2020 election was nonsensical and "un-American." "Mike Pence said no. He resisted the pressure. He knew it was illegal, he knew it was wrong," Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson said to open the third day of hearings examining the Capitol attack. "We are fortunate for Mr. Pence's courage on January 6. Our democracy came dangerously close to catastrophe." Two Pence aides appeared in person at Thursday's hearing: Greg Jacob, Pence's former counsel, and J. Michael Luttig, a highly respected conservative jurist and retired federal judge who advised Pence in the aftermath of the 2020 election. The committee also showed taped footage of an interview with Marc Short, Pence's chief of staff, and other aides. The testimony made clear that Pence and his closest aides repeatedly told Trump and his allies that a theory pushed by conservative lawyer John Eastman, who wrote a memo laying out the scheme for the vice president to single-handedly reject or replace slates of electors, had no basis in the Constitution or federal law. But Trump continued to pressure Pence to intervene in the run-up to Jan. 6, including at a one-on-one meeting the night before, pushing the country to the brink of a constitutional crisis. Jacob told the panel that he advised Pence in December that he had "no justifiable basis to conclude" that he could unilaterally reject Electoral College votes, confirming what he said was Pence's "first instinct." In his role as president of the Senate, Pence presided over the joint session of Congress when it gathered to count Electoral Votes on Jan. 6, as required under the 12th Amendment and an 1887 law known as the Electoral Count Act. "There's just no way that the framers of the Constitution — who divided power and authority, who separated it out who had broken away from George III and declared him to be a tyrant — there was no way that they would have put in the hands of one person the authority to determine who was going to be president of the United States," Jacob said. Short testified that Pence told Trump he would not reject electors "many, many times" yet the president would not drop the matter. Luttig said the idea that Pence could reject Electoral College votes had no legal basis, and doing so "would have been tantamount to a revolution within a constitutional crisis in America." The committee showed edits that Eastman had made to an earlier document from before the election, in which he said he did not agree with the notion that the vice president could reject electors. Nevertheless, he pushed for Pence to do just that after the election.