In the wake of the Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade, major corporations including Procter & Gamble and Target are adding abortion travel costs to their employee benefits. The goal is to ensure their employees can seek abortion care if they live in states where the procedure is now or will soon be illegal. About 26 U.S. states are expected to swiftly outlaw abortion following the overturn of the landmark 1973 ruling, according to the Guttmacher Institute, which researches reproductive issues. A trickle of companies announced abortion travel coverage earlier this year after states including Texas introduced restrictive abortion laws. But more corporations have followed in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling on Friday, with dozens of companies representing millions workers now pledging to cover travel costs in case their employees need abortion care. On Tuesday, Procter & Gamble said its new travel policy will cover workers who can't access care from a provider within a 50-mile radius, and will take effect on January 1. The conglomerate, which makes household products such as Pampers and Tide, employs 26,000 people in the U.S. and is based in Ohio, which has an abortion ban. Target told its roughly 450,000 U.S. workers in a memo on Monday that it would reimburse travel costs related to any covered medical procedure that isn't available nearby, starting in July. The discount retailer operates about 2,000 stores across the country. Here's a rundown of some of the other companies that have expanded coverage: The e-commerce giant — which employs 1.6 million workers — said it will reimburse up to $4,000 in travel costs for abortions. "Amazon has expanded the travel and lodging benefit to cover travel for a number of non-life threatening conditions if a provider is not available within 100 miles of an employee's home," an Amazon spokesperson told CBS MoneyWatch in an email. The nation's second-largest bank said it would cover travel costs for employees who need to go out of state to get reproductive services including abortions. The dating-app company in September said it was setting up a fund to help organizations that support reproductive rights after Texas — the state where Bumble is based — banned abortion after six weeks of pregnancy. The bank added the travel benefit to its workplace offerings after several states enacted restrictive reproductive health care laws. "Beginning in 2022 we provide travel benefits to facilitate access to adequate resources," Citigroup stated in a regulatory filing on March 15. The drugstore chain has reportedly made out-of-state medical care, including abortion, accessible for employees. After the Supreme Court ruling, the retailer said it will reimburse as much as $4,000 in abortion travel costs "to the nearest location that care is legally available" for workers, their spouses and dependents. The cosmetics company said earlier this month it will cover travel and lodging for reproductive health care in the U.S. starting in August. The bank reportedly will cover travel costs for U.S.-based employees who need to go out of state to get abortions or gender-affirming care, starting July 1. The company is among those that cover travel costs for medical procedures not available in a worker's home state. The nation's biggest bank last week said it will cover the tab of travel to states where abortion remains legal starting in July. The grocer, based in Ohio, is providing up to $4,000 to cover travel to a range of medical procedures, including abortion and fertility treatments. Shar Dubey, the CEO of the Dallas-based company, in 2021 set up a fund to help any of the company's Texas workers who might need to travel out of state for an abortion. "We will continue to offer employees access to the same health care that is available today wherever they live," a spokesperson for MasterCard stated in an email. That includes family planning. The owner of Facebook and Instagram said it would reimburse travel expenses "to the extent permitted by law" for those who need to access out-of-state health care and reproductive services. The technology company extended its financial support for "critical healthcare" including abortions to include covering travel expenses for such procedures. The media conglomerate, the owner of CBS News, told employees in an email following the Supreme Court decision that the company would cover travel costs to get a legal abortion. The outdoor apparel company said it would cover the cost of medical insurance for full- and part-time workers, including abortion care. "Where restrictions exist, travel, lodging and food are covered," the company said. It also vowed to cover "training and bail for those who peacefully protest for reproductive justice." The money transfer company decided to pay for employees to travel for abortions if necessary after the Texas Supreme Court upheld a law prohibiting abortion after a fetal heartbeat can be detected, something that can happen within six weeks of pregnancy. CEO Marc Benioff in September said the software company would help employees who wanted to leave Texas because of the state's abortion restrictions. The coffee shop chain in May said it was expanding its existing medical insurance to cover costs for those who don't have access to abortions within 100 miles of home. The ride-hailing company said it's committed to covering travel costs for employees to access healthcare services and it would cover legal costs for drivers to provide transportation to clinics. The theme park operator on Friday pledged to cover travel costs for "family planning" for employees who can't access care where they live, including "pregnancy-related decisions." Disney employs 195,000. The company in May said it would provide up to $3,000 annually for U.S. employees who need to travel for reproductive care, including abortion. The real estate site updated its health plan as of June 1 to reimburse employees up to $7,500 each time significant travel is needed to access health care, including reproductive services or gender-affirming care.