Singer Tom Parker of "The Wanted" has died, his wife said Wednesday. The 33-year-old's death comes less than two years after he disclosed that he was battling an inoperable brain tumor. "Our hearts are broken, Tom was the centre of our world and we can't imagine life without his infectious smile and energetic presence," Parker's wife Kelsey Hardwick said on Instagram. "We are truly thankful for the outpouring of love and support and ask that we all unite to ensure Tom's light continues to shine for his beautiful children. Thank you to everyone who has supported in his care throughout, he fought until the very end. I'm forever proud of you." The popular U.K. band said Parker "passed away peacefully at lunchtime" where he was surrounded by his family and band mates. "Tom was an amazing husband to Kelsey, and father to Aurelia and Bodhi," the band wrote on Instagram. "He was our brother, words can't express the loss and sadness we feel. Always and forever in our hearts." Parker announced his stage 4 glioblastoma diagnosis in October 2020, which he said came after he had two seizures. According to the Mayo Clinic, glioblastoma is an aggressive type of cancer that can be very difficult to treat and is often incurable. Senator John McCain was also diagnosed with glioblastoma in 2017, about a year before his death. "We don't want your sadness, we just want love and positivity and together we will raise awareness of this terrible disease and look for all available treatment options," Parker wrote on Instagram at the time. "It's gonna be a tough battle but with everyone's love and support we are going to beat this." In January 2021, Parker said there had been a "significant reduction" in his brain tumor and that he was responding well to treatment. Last month, his wife said he was showing "a massive amount of progress physically but also mentally." "He has reignited a spark in himself through seeing all the incredible love & support you have shown us," she wrote in February. Celebrities and fans mourned the news of Parker's death. "Very sad day, what a lovely guy," Ed Sheeran said on Instagram. Liam Payne of the former boy band One Direction said he is "heartbroken" at the news. "He was so full of life and humour, and the memories I have of him with (sic) stay with me forever," Payne said on his Instagram story. "Sending my thoughts out to his family and his brothers in 'The Wanted.'" "The Wanted," which is made up of Parker, Max George, Siva Kaneswaran, Nathan Sykes and Jay McGuiness, has more than 12 million worldwide record sales and boasts nearly six million monthly listeners on Spotify, according to the band. The award-winning group is behind the hits "Glad You Came" and "All Time Low."