As many as 12 missiles struck Iraq's northern city of Irbil on Sunday near the U.S. consulate, Iraqi security officials said. A U.S. defense official said missiles had been launched at the city from neighboring Iran. A spokesperson for the U.S. State Department said no injuries or casualties were reported and there was no damage to the U.S. facility, which is new and currently unoccupied. One of the missiles struck near where the Kurdistan24 TV station broadcasts from. The station went on air shortly afterward and showed shattered glass and debris on their studio floor. An Iraqi official in Baghdad at first said several missiles had hit the U.S. consulate and that it was the target of the attack. Later, Lawk Ghafari, the head of Kurdistan's foreign media office, said none of the missiles hit the U.S. facility but that areas around the compound had been hit by the missiles. A U.S. defense official told The Associated Press it was still not certain exactly how many missiles were fired and exactly where they landed. Iraqi security officials told AP there were no immediate reports of casualties from the attack, which they said occurred shortly after midnight and caused material damage in the area. They spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations. One of the Iraqi officials said ballistic missiles were fired from Iran, without elaborating. The U.S. officials could not confirm the type of missile. The State Department spokesperson said the attack was being investigated by the government of Iraq and the Kurdish Regional Government, saying  that U.S. condemned  the "outrageous attack against Iraqi sovereignty and display of violence," the official said in a statement. The attack came several days after an Israeli strike near Damascus, Syria, killed two members of Iran's Revolutionary Guard. Iran's foreign ministry strongly condemned the attack Wednesday and vowed revenge. On Sunday, Iran's state-run IRNA news agency quoted Iraqi media acknowledging the attacks in Irbil, without saying where they originated. A security statement said Irbil was targeted "with a number of missiles" early Sunday, adding that security forces were investigating the incident and would release more details later. The attack came as negotiations in Vienna over Tehran's tattered nuclear deal hit a "pause" over Russian demands about sanctions targeting Moscow over its war on Ukraine. The top U.S. commander for the Middle East has repeatedly warned about the increasing threats of attacks from Iran and Iranian-back militias on troops and allies in Iraq and Syria. In an interview with The Associated Press in December, Marine General Frank McKenzie said that while U.S. forces in Iraq have shifted to a non-combat role, Iran and its proxies still want all American troops to leave the country. As a result, he said, that may trigger more attacks.' The Biden administration decided last July to end the U.S. combat mission in Iraq by December 31, and U.S. forces gradually moved to an advisory role last year. The troops will still provide air support and other military aid for Iraq's fight against the Islamic State. The U.S. presence in Iraq has long been a flash point for Tehran, but tensions spiked after a January 2020 U.S. drone strike near the Baghdad airport killed a top Iranian general. In retaliation, Iran launched a barrage of missiles at al-Asad airbase, where U.S. troops were stationed. More than 100 service members suffered traumatic brain injuries in the blasts. More recently, Iranian proxies are believed responsible for an assassination attempt late last year on Iraq's Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi. And officials have said they believe Iran was behind the October drone attack at the military outpost in southern Syria where American troops are based. No U.S. personnel were killed or injured in the attack. Al-Kadhimi tweeted: "The aggression which targeted the dear city of Irbil and spread fear amongst its inhabitants is an attack on the security of our people." Masrour Barzani, prime minister of the semi-autonomous Kurdish-controlled region, condemned the attack. In a Facebook post, he said Irbil "will not bow to the cowards who carried out the terrorist attack."