There were a number of historic firsts as the 94th Academy Awards returned to the Dolby Theater in Hollywood Sunday night — but they were overshadowed by a shocking moment when Will Smith walked up on stage and smacked Chris Rock after Rock made a joke about Smith's wife, Jada Pinkett Smith. Then, less than 30 minutes later, Smith gave an emotional speech after winning his first Oscar, for Best Actor. In a line that seemed to allude to his behavior, Smith said that Richard Williams, whom he portrayed in "King Richard," was a "fierce defender of his family," and he offered an apology to the Academy and his fellow nominees. A big winner of the night was "CODA," a coming-of-age film starring three Deaf actors. It took home Best Picture, and Troy Kotsur became the first Deaf man to win an acting Oscar. Kotsur's win was greeted by the audience raising their hands in a gesture of silent applause.. "This is an amazing journey, I can't believe I'm here," Kotsur said. The film was also the first Best Picture Oscar for a streaming service, Apple+. Other big wins included Ariana DeBose, the first openly queer woman of color to take home Best Supporting Actress. DeBose won for playing Anita in "West Side Story," the same role that Rita Moreno won for 60 years ago. Though "The Power of the Dog" led the nominations with 12, its only major win went to director Jane Campion. Best Actress went to Jessica Chastain for her role in "In the Eyes of Tammy Faye." "Dune" was also a big winner, taking home six awards, including Best Cinematography. For the first time in several years, the Oscars show had a host — three, in fact, with Regina Hall, Amy Schumer and Wanda Sykes sharing hosting duties. "This year, the Academy hired three women to host because it's cheaper than hiring one man," Schumer quipped. Midway through Sunday night's broadcast, the show observed a moment of silence to honor the ongoing struggle in Ukraine. "We collectively as a global community can do more," said a statement displayed on screen. "We ask you to support Ukraine in any way you are able."