Jeff Bezos' rocket company Blue Origin launched its fourth crewed New Shepard flight Thursday— a 10-minute thrill ride carrying five entrepreneur/adventurers and the spacecraft's chief designer to the edge of space and back. Running two days late because of high winds at the company's West Texas launch site, the stubby New Shepard rocket's hydrogen-fueled main engine roared to life at 9:58 a.m. EDT, throttled up to full thrust and boosted the spacecraft away atop a jet of flaming exhaust. Gary Lai, one of Blue Origin's first employees and the architect of the New Shepard program, was added to the crew in place of comedian Pete Davidson after a launch delay and schedule conflict forced the "Saturday Night Live" star to withdraw. Joining Lai for the sub-orbital flight were philanthropists and space enthusiasts Marc and Sharon Hagle; University of North Carolina professor and world traveler Jim Kitchen; George Nield, president of Commercial Space Technologies and a former manager with NASA and the FAA; and "angel investor" Marty Allen. Despite a few unexplained holds in the countdown that held up launch by more than 45 minutes, it appeared to be smooth sailing Thursday as the reusable rocket and crew capsule raced straight up into a clear blue sky. The computer-controlled New Shepard separated from its booster at an altitude of about 45 miles and continued coasting upward, reaching an altitude of nearly 66 miles, four miles higher than the internationally recognized "boundary" between the discernible atmosphere and space. Weightless after booster separation, the passengers were able to  unstrap and float about the cabin for three to four minutes as they  arced over the top of the trajectory. The New Shepard capsule is  equipped with the largest windows of any operational spacecraft in the  world, giving the crew spectacular hemispheric views of the Earth below  and the deep black of space above as it reached the top of its  trajectory and began the long plunge back to the launch site. "Let me tell you, that was an out-of-body experience," Kitchen said after landing. "You're going 2,300 miles an hour, and you feel every bit of that. And then (you get to the top) and time stops. ... You see this beautiful Earth and the blackness of the Universe, and it's the blackest black I have ever seen, it is just breathtaking. And wow, that was a moment. That was a moment." The booster followed a similar trajectory as the capsule, maintaining its tail-down orientation as it homed in on its landing pad two miles from where it took off. Nearing the ground, the rocket's BE-3 main engine re-ignited, four landing legs deployed and the booster settled to touchdown in a cloud of dust. The crew capsule followed two minutes later, descending under three large parachutes to a walking-pace landing cushioned by powerful air jets an instant before touchdown at 10:08 a.m. EDT. Mission duration: 10 minutes and four seconds. Allen said he was at a loss for words. "Going up, I was thinking (the experience) was going to be 50 percent weightlessness and 50 percent the view. When we got up there, it became 5 percent of weightlessness and 95 percent of view. "The weightlessness was neat, but the view of looking to space, seeing the Earth ... it was incredible. All of America's got to get caught up to this and we need a lot of people up here. I'm still stunned for words." The launching marked Blue Origin's 20th New Shepard flight, its fourth with passengers on board and the 24th non-government commercial spaceflight overall. Before the first crewed launch of a New Shepard, Lai described the  spacecraft as "the safest human spaceflight vehicle ever designed or  built or operated." "We are going to ramp up operations," Lai told  CBS News at the time. "We're going to have dozens and eventually  hundreds and thousands of astronauts, we hope, fly on New Shepard." As for how reality matched his expectations? "It was different," he said after landing, clearly elated by the experience. "The entire time I was in zero G, I felt like I was falling toward the ceiling. It was intense, and I did get a little bit of a feeling of vertigo. I know most of the astronauts have said in the past that they haven't felt nauseous, (but) I did feel a little bit nauseous." And overwhelmed by the view through the over-size windows. "Oh yeah, it was like being outside," he said. Thursday's flight was Blue Origin's first without one or more celebrities on board. Jeff Bezos, his brother Mark and aviation pioneer Wally Funk were on board for New Shepard's first piloted mission last July 20; William Shatner of "Star Trek" fame was aboard for the second launch Oct. 13; and TV personality Michael Strahan and Laura Shepard Churchley, daughter of astronaut Alan Shepard, were aboard for the third on Dec. 11. Davidson, like Strahan, Churchley and Shatner before him, was invited to fly in what amounted to savvy marketing guaranteed to generate widespread media coverage in a high-stakes competition between Blue Origin and Virgin Galactic, owned by fellow billionaire and master marketeer Richard Branson. Virgin has launched four piloted flights of its winged spaceplane VSS Unity, most recently sending up Branson, two pilots and three company crewmates last July 11. Commercial operations are expected to start later this year.