Financial regulators have unveiled sweeping new rules that would require companies to disclose the greenhouse gas emissions they produce  and how climate risk affects their business — part of a drive from the Biden administration to address climate change. Under the rules, proposed  Monday by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, publicly traded companies would  have to report on their climate risks, including the costs of moving  away from fossil fuels, as well as risks related to the physical impact  of storms, drought and higher temperatures caused by global warming.  They would be required to lay out to shareholders their transition plans for managing  climate risk, how they intend to meet climate goals and progress made,  and the impact of severe weather events on their finances. Companies that have made climate-related pledges will need to provide specifics on how they're meeting those goals. The number of investors seeking more information on risk related to   global warming has grown dramatically in recent years, as the cost of severe weather disasters has skyrocketed into hundreds of billions of dollars annually. Many companies  already  provide climate-risk information voluntarily, but climate activists and  investors have criticized some disclosures as being inconsistent and lacking detail, sometimes amounting to "greenwashing." The idea behind the SEC's proposal is that,  with uniform required information, investors would be able to compare  companies within industries and sectors. "Today, investors  representing literally tens of trillions of dollars support  climate-related disclosures because they recognize that climate risks  can pose significant financial risks to companies, and investors need  reliable information about climate risks to make informed investment  decisions," SEC Chairman Gary Gensler said in a statement. The required disclosures would include greenhouse gas emissions  produced by companies directly or indirectly — such as from consumption  of the company's products, vehicles used to transport products, employee  business travel and energy used to grow raw materials. The SEC issued voluntary guidance in 2010, but this is the first time  mandatory disclosure rules were put forward. Climate activists and investor groups have clamored for mandatory   disclosure of information that would be uniformly required of all   companies. Advocates estimate that excluding companies' indirect  emissions, also  called Scope 3 emissions, would leave out some 75% of greenhouse gas  emissions. The rules were opened to a  public comment period of around 60 days. They are likely to be modified  before any final adoption, observers say. Climate activists praised the proposed rule for public companies. "Investors deserve all the information they need to properly assess financial risks," said Mike Litt, consumer campaigns director at US PIRG.  "Americans' retirement accounts and other savings could be endangered if we don't acknowledge potential liabilities caused by climate change and take them seriously. The Great Recession showed us what can happen when government regulators and Wall Street ignore risks and don't disclose them to the public." On the other hand, major business interests and Republican officials —  reaching down to the state level — began mobilizing against the climate  disclosures long before the SEC unveiled the proposed rules Monday,  exposing the sharply divided political dynamic of the climate issue. Hester Peirce, the sole Republican among four SEC commissioners, voted against the proposal, which passed on a 3-1 vote. "We cannot make such fundamental changes  without harming" companies, investors and the SEC, she said. "The  results won't be reliable, let alone comparable." Pushback from conservatives is likely to water down the rules before final adoption, according to Cowen analyst Jaret Seiberg. "This is not the last word on climate  disclosures," he said in a research note. "Expect progressives to demand more and conservatives to  complain that the SEC is overstepping its jurisdiction and contributing  to high energy costs." The SEC action is part of a government-wide effort to identify  climate risks, with new regulations planned from various agencies  touching on the financial industry, housing and agriculture, among other  areas. President Joe Biden issued an executive order last year calling  for concrete steps to blunt climate risks, while spurring job creation  and helping the U.S. reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to  climate change. Biden has made slowing climate change a top priority and has set a  target to cut U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 52% below 2005  levels by 2030. He also has said he expects to adopt a clean-energy  standard that would make electric power carbon-free by 2035, along with  the wider goal of net-zero carbon emissions through the economy by 2050. A report issued last fall by the Financial Stability Oversight  Council, a group of top federal regulators including the Federal Reserve  and the Treasury Department, warned that climate change posed risks to  financial institutions and the financial system. A government watchdog last year also found that pensions and 401(k) plans were vulnerable to climate risks, while the costs of disasters could increase losses to companies and the broader economy. The premier business lobby, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the  American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry's top trade group,  maintain that the SEC is reaching beyond its authority with the  mandatory reporting rules, and that they would put substantial costs on  businesses. Tom Quaadman, the Chamber's executive vice president for Capital Markets  Competitiveness, said that the rules required too much information from  companies that was not "material" to their financial performance. "Any  required disclosures under securities laws must meet the test of  materiality, and we will advocate against provisions of this proposal  that deviate from that standard or are unnecessarily broad," Quaadman  said in an emailed statement. The threat that opponents could take the SEC to court over the regulations has loomed. Last June, a group of 16 Republican state attorneys general, led by  Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia, raised objections in a letter to SEC  Chairman Gensler. "Companies are well positioned to decide whether and  how to satisfy the market's evolving demands, for both customers and  investors," they said. "If the (SEC) were to move forward in this area,  however, it would be delving into an inherently political morass for  which it is ill-suited." Morrisey previously threatened to sue the SEC over expanded  disclosures from companies of environmental, social and governance  information. With reporting by CBS News' Irina Ivanova.