Family Dollar closed more than 400 stores last month after more than 1,000 dead rodents were found at one of its distribution facilities. Now, details about the infestation are coming to light in a 22-page FDA inspection report that cited problems ranging from "four rat carcasses on the conveyor belt" to rodent droppings "too numerous to count." Several products sold at Family Dollar stores in six states were voluntarily recalled, the Food and Drug Administration said last month. On Wednesday, Family Dollar parent company Dollar Tree said the product recall and store closures resulted in a cost of $34 million. It also revealed in a U.S. Securities and Exchange filing that it is facing several proposed class-action lawsuits over the infestation and recalls. The FDA report noted the company had been aware of the presence of rodents in the West Memphis, Arkansas, facility since at least January 2020. In October 2021, a fire drill sent "dozens of rats" scurrying around the facility due to the loud sound, the agency said. In an email, a Dollar Tree spokeswoman said the company takes "this very seriously and [is] committed to providing safe and quality products to our customers." She added, "We have been fully cooperating with all regulatory agencies in the resolution of this matter and are in the process of remediating the issue." The FDA confirmed the authenticity of the inspection report. The problems at the facility could hurt Family Dollar's reputation among consumers, retail expert Neil Saunders, managing director of GlobalData, said in a report. "We find the situation concerning as we think it points to a wider sloppiness in the Family Dollar operation and a willingness to cut corners," Saunders wrote. "While no one expects a dollar store to be palatial, consumers rightfully want basic hygiene and safety standards to be adhered to." Among the issues found by FDA inspectors at the facility: The FDA report noted that the company lacked a system to track reports from its stores that received contaminated products from the distribution center. It also noted that one store received a box with a "live large rat" inside it. Dollar Tree said the distribution center remains open but is operating at "limited capacity." At the same time, it is gradually reopening the stores that it shuttered due to the problems at the facility, but it doesn't have a timetable at the moment, the spokeswoman said. "The facility is not currently shipping FDA-regulated products, such as packaged human and animal (pet) food, drug products, dietary supplements, medical devices and cosmetics," the spokeswoman said. "We are working on a remediation plan."