Host: Jane Pauley HEADLINES: The latest from UkraineCorrespondent Charlie D'Agata reports. COVER STORY: The war as Russians see itWith the clampdown on independent news and social media within Russia, Vladimir Putin is restricting what Russian citizens can see from Ukraine. Correspondent Lee Cowan reports on the propaganda and misinformation that is painting a false picture of the war being waged by the Kremlin. HEADLINES: Protesters in Russia risk arrest to speak out against warSince Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of Ukraine, more than 13,000 Russians protesting in the streets have been arrested. Correspondent David Pogue talks with a young woman detained for demonstrating against the war; and with a former Parliament Member, forced to leave the country, who describes Putin's efforts to eradicate dissent. FOOD: Hamantaschen, a cookie bursting with historyHamantaschen, a triangular-shaped cookie served during the Jewish holiday of Purim, celebrates the spirit of resilience. Correspondent Faith Salie bites into the history of this treat, and of how it came to be associated with the Biblical tale of Esther – and a notorious villain. For more info: TV: Amy Poehler on the hard work of comedyEver since she was a child growing up in Burlington, Mass., Amy Poehler knew she liked making people laugh. And she's become very good at it – as a member of the Second City improv troupe, a cast member of "Saturday Night Live," and the star of "Parks & Recreation." The actress and producer talked with correspondent Luke Burbank about her comedy career, including her latest project: directing the documentary "Lucy and Desi." To watch a trailer for the documentary "Lucy and Desi," click on the video player below: For more info: BOOKS: Harvey Fierstein on "I Was Better Last Night"Tony Award-winning actor and playwright Harvey Fierstein recounts his life as a performer in his new memoir, "I Was Better Last Night." He talks with correspondent Rita Braver about coming out as gay as a teen; his roles in the Broadway shows "Torch Song Trilogy," "La Cage aux Folles," "Hairspray" and "Fiddler on the Roof"; and overcoming a serious drinking problem. For more info: PASSAGE: In memoriam MUSIC: Keith Richards on the Rolling Stones and a solo reunionThe guitarist of The Rolling Stones, and frontman of Keith Richards & the X-Pensive Winos, talks with correspondent Anthony Mason about his solo career; writing new music with Mick Jagger; the passing of the Stones' drummer Charlie Watts; and how he kicked his most persistent addiction. To hear Keith Richards perform "Demon," from the remastered "Main Offender," click on the player below: For more info: HARTMAN: Pep talks MOVIES: Will Smith on building a legacyGlobal superstar Will Smith, nominated for an Oscar for his performance in "King Richard," sits down with "CBS Mornings" co-host Gayle King to talk about his inspiring life's journey – from his complicated relationship with a disciplinarian father, to his early years as a rapper and TV star in "Fresh Prince of Bel Air," to becoming a big-screen box office champion. For more info: MILEPOST: Explorer Ernest Shackleton's ship foundLast week archeologists discovered the wreck of Endurance, the vessel from Ernest Shackleton's fabled Antarctic expedition of over a century ago, nearly two miles below the surface of the icy Weddell Sea. Jane Pauley reports. EDUCATION: Taking the masks off: Schools look beyond COVIDPandemic protocols and remote learning have taken their toll on teachers, students and parents. As masks start coming off in classrooms across the country, correspondent Martha Teichner looks at whether schools can truly get back to normal – and how to measure collateral damage from the battle to educate kids during COVID. For more info: NATURE: TBD THE BOOK REPORT: New fiction and non-fiction titlesRecommendations by Washington Post book reviewer Ron Charles. "HERE COMES THE SUN": Fran Lebowitz and Ritchie Torres The Emmy Award-winning "CBS Sunday Morning" is broadcast on CBS Sundays beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET. Executive producer is Rand Morrison. DVR Alert! Find out when "Sunday Morning" airs in your city "Sunday Morning" also streams on the CBS News app beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET. (Download it here.) Full episodes of "Sunday Morning" are now available to watch on demand on CBSNews.com, CBS.com and Paramount+, including via Apple TV, Android TV, Roku, Chromecast, Amazon FireTV/FireTV stick and Xbox. Follow us on Twitter; Facebook; Instagram; YouTube; TikTok; and at cbssundaymorning.com. You can also download the free "Sunday Morning" audio podcast at iTunes and at Play.it. Now you'll never miss the trumpet!