The cost of everything keeps creeping up. And if you happen to have credit card debt, that's about to get a bit more expensive too, thanks to a series of interest rate increases beginning this month. With inflation at its highest rate since the early 1980s, the Federal Reserve is adjusting interest rates to hopefully restabilize the U.S. economy. In short, the Fed changes the federal funds rate, which alters the prime rate — that's the rate banks charge customers with high credit ratings. Credit card issuers add onto the prime rate to set their interest rates, so when the prime rate goes up, so does what you'll pay when you're in debt. Got all that? Great. Now forget what you just read and pay attention to this part: If you have significant credit card debt, it doesn't really matter what the Fed is doing. Your credit card debt has always been, and will continue to be, expensive. If you have a $5,000 balance remaining on your credit card from month to month, and your interest rate is 16%, you'll spend $800 in interest over the course of a year. If your interest rate increases to 16.25%, that translates to only an extra $13 in interest over a year. Technically, that means it's not so much a rate hike as it is a gentle uphill slope. But $800 was already a lot, and that's without accounting for the fact that you'll still need to spend additional money you might not be able to pay back. The bills don't stop just because you're in debt. This is why squeezing a stress ball while watching the news isn't helpful in this case. What is helpful is facing money issues head-on. "The hardest part is ripping off the Band-Aid and really just adding up the numbers to see how much you owe," said Akeiva Ellis, a certified financial planner and founder of The Bemused, a financial literacy brand for young adults. "But if you're able to make it to that point, it's really all about making a plan. Don't let your debt overwhelm you. The sooner you can face the numbers and devise a plan to pay it down, the easier you'll breathe." This article was provided to The Associated Press by the personal finance website NerdWallet. Sara Rathner is a writer at NerdWallet.