Saudi Arabia said on Monday that it "won't  bear any responsibility" for a shortage in global oil supplies after a  fierce barrage of attacks by Yemen's Houthi rebels affected production  in the kingdom, the world's largest oil exporter. The  unusually stark warning marked a departure from the giant oil  producer's typically cautious statements, as Saudi officials remain  aware that even their smallest comments can swing the price of oil and  rattle global markets. The  statement comes as the kingdom remains lockstep with OPEC and other  oil-producing countries in a deal limiting increases in production and  as energy prices rise higher amid Russia's war on Ukraine. Already,  Americans have had to pay record-breaking prices at the pump for  gasoline. Saudi Arabia is the world's second-largest oil producer, after the United States. Russia is the third-largest. The  state-run Saudi Press Agency quoted the Foreign Ministry as saying that  "the international community must assume its responsibility to maintain  energy supplies" in order to "stand against the Houthis." The  repeated Houthi attacks will affect "the kingdom's production capacity  and its ability to meet its obligations," the statement added,  threatening the "security and stability of energy supplies to global  markets." The price of Brent crude oil, the international benchmark, stood at over $112 a barrel in trading Monday. On  Sunday, Yemen's Houthi rebels launched a series of attacks targeting the  kingdom's oil and natural gas production. The Saudi Energy Ministry had  said the attacks at the Yanbu petrochemicals complex on the Red Sea  coast led to a temporary drop in oil output. The  drone and missile strikes ignited a fire at a tank at a petroleum  distribution center in the Saudi port city of Jiddah and affected production at  the gas facility in Yanbu. The overall extent of damage at the  installations remained unclear. The  Saudi government condemned the attacks, saying they threatened the  security of oil supplies "in these extremely sensitive circumstances" in  the global energy market. The  relentless wave of strikes on Sunday marked one of the most intense  Houthi barrages on the kingdom, exposing Saudi defense vulnerabilities  and recalling the dramatic September 2019 attacks on two key oil  installations that knocked out half of Saudi Arabia's total oil  production. The  White House sharply condemned the strikes and pledged to support Saudi  Arabia's defenses and denounced the Houthis as proxies of Iran. Late Sunday, a senior administration official  confirmed that the United States has transferred a significant number of  Patriot antimissile interceptors to help Saudi Arabia defend itself against Houthi drone and missile attacks.