After Russia escalated its attacks on Ukraine this week, with the bombing of a children's and maternity hospital and repeated shelling near nuclear facilites and civillian areas, Rep. Mike Quigley, Democrat of Illinois, said it's time that Ukraine is treated like a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). And the U.S., he argues, should be doing more to help Ukrainians defend themselves. "Ukraine has earned being treated like it's a NATO member," Quigley, who is co-chair of the congressional Ukraine Caucus, told CBS News chief Washington correspondent Major Garrett in this week's episode of "The Takeout" podcast. "[Ukraine's] fight is the fight and the argument to form NATO in the first place, at least in spirit." Last weekend, Quigley and other members of Congress joined a call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to talk about how the U.S. can further aid Ukraine. Zelensky asked the U.S. and western allies to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine, an idea that is not supported by NATO, the E.U. or the Biden administration, out of the fear that the war in Ukraine could escalate into a global crisis. But Quigley believes the conflict has already escalated. "We need to stop thinking about the fact that, well, maybe if we're subtle about this, Putin won't see this as an escalation, right? He clearly thinks the sanctions were an escalation. We tanked the ruble, his stock market, his economy, the disinvestment that's taking place," Quigley said. "Will planes bother him more? Or is this just building in the fact that the stingers and javelins are very effectively killing his soldiers and the war isn't going the way he wants?" In addition to a no-fly zone, Quigley said the U.S. should send more military aircraft to Ukraine, regardless of their origin. Earlier this week, the Pentagon rejected offers from Poland to transfer MiG-19 jets to U.S. forces, which would then be delivered to the Ukrainian military. The Pentagon called the proposed transfer "untenable." "This is a humanitarian crisis at its core, and we have to do more," Quigley said. "Our whole point was to help Ukraine defend itself. So this is the time to do it." Quigley also said a potential Russian false flag event that could serve as a pretext for a Russian chemical or biological weapon attack is not surprising, given Russian President Vladimir Putin has used such weapons in the past. "The best indicator of future activity is past activity. Obviously, the invasion is a gross violation of international law. For us to imagine that once [Putin] got in to Ukraine had suddenly follow the speed limit is ridiculous," Quigley said. "I think as he gets particularly angry, more and more angry and frustrated with how things are proceeding that these are very real threats and again, they are why we need to remind ourselves this isn't the Ukraine problem, this is a problem for the region, for Europe and of course, for the U.S." Highlights Executive producer: Arden Farhi Producers: Jamie Benson, Jacob Rosen, Sara Cook and Eleanor Watson CBSN Production: Eric Soussanin Show email: TakeoutPodcast@cbsnews.comTwitter: @TakeoutPodcastInstagram: @TakeoutPodcastFacebook: Facebook.com/TakeoutPodcast