Our annual special broadcast looks into the many ways we earn, spend, invest, waste, lose, and go without money, hosted by Jane Pauley. COVER STORY: How Rust Belt company towns evolve in the age of e-commerceE-commerce has changed the way Americans shop, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs picking and packing those products in giant warehouses that dot the landscape of cities and towns across America, many of which haven't seen well-paying blue-collar jobs in decades. Correspondent Lee Cowan visits Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley to see how one community is adapting to the challenges and opportunities of this new age. For more info: ART: Crystal Bridges Museum, and a town's resurgenceMore than six million people have visited the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art since it opened in 2011. Alice Walton's beautiful oasis for the best art the second-richest woman in the world could buy has transformed the once-sleepy town of Bentonville, Arkansas, into a thriving artists' community. Correspondent Martha Teichner reports. For more info: SOCIAL MEDIA: Ryan's World: How a kid in Hawaii became a YouTube millionaireWhen the Kaji family, of Honolulu, shared a video of their three-year-old son, Ryan, with family, they had no idea that it would go viral – and launch a YouTube, TV and toy franchise worth millions. Correspondent Luke Burbank talks with Ryan, now 10, and his parents, about the secret of getting billions of views of month with their new family business. For more info: LABOR: The return of unionsCorrespondent David Pogue reports. For more info: ROYALS: Tina Brown on Britain's royals: "It's a great family saga"How will Britain's monarchy transition from the now-96-year-old Queen Elizabeth II when her reign ends? And what has the estrangement of Prince Harry done to the royal family? Correspondent Mo Rocca talks with royals watcher Tina Brown, author of the new book, "The Palace Papers: Inside the House of Windsor – The Truth and the Turmoil." For more info: MUSIC: Bringing back the hits: Mining music catalogs for goldCorrespondent Kelefa Sanneh looks at how music catalogs are becoming extremely valuable properties. He also talks with Graham Russell and Russell Hitchcock, of the band Air Supply, whose '80s hits, including "All Out of Love," are finding new life in unexpected ways. For more info: BUSINESS: Japanese companies measuring success by centuries, not fiscal quartersIn Japan, some of the world's oldest companies have been serving customers for a century or more, including a hotel that has been operating for 1,300 years. Correspondent Lucy Craft visits some "shinise" firms – long-standing hotels, shops and restaurants, many of which have been family-run for generations. For more info: HOME: Zillow, bringing unreal real estate to your screenZillow, the largest online real estate marketplace, makes your potential next home – whether a towering castle or an underground bunker – just a click away. And now, social media sites like "Zillow Gone Wild" are helping make the most outlandish properties go viral. Correspondent Nancy Chen talks to experts about how to boost a listing's online curb appeal. For more info: TV: Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin on "Grace and Frankie," age and activismOn the Netflix series "Grace and Frankie," Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin play two feisty octogenarians who see old age not as a death sentence, but as a victory lap. The two old friends talk with correspondent Tracy Smith about aging, working together, and how Fonda, who raised millions as an exercise entrepreneur, gave most of it away. For more info: FOOD: Shef, delivering home-cooked meals to your homeThe new online marketplace Shef connects customers with food entrepreneurs – many of whom are immigrants or refugees – working out of their homes. Correspondent Lilia Luciano looks at how Shef is offering opportunities to aspiring chefs (75 percent of whom are women) preparing cuisine from nearly 100 countries. For more info: WINE: How German winemakers turned disaster into hopeLast summer, floods inundated western Germany, killing nearly 200 people and devastating the Ahr Valley. Local winemakers whose vines were decimated raised money by selling "flood wines" – bottles whose labels were soiled by mud. The effort has raised $5 million to support the local industry, and raised awareness about winemaking in the region. Correspondent Seth Doane reports. For more info: BUSINESS: Daycare dilemma: Getting childcare to workSince the COVID pandemic, childcare for young children in the U.S. has gone from bad to worse, with thousands of programs closing across the country, and centers struggling to hire new staff. Correspondent Rita Braver talks with childcare providers fighting to make ends meet, and with working parents searching for options. For more info: BOOKS: American history on the auction blockRare books and papers detailing the exploration of the New World and the founding of the United States, from the collection of book dealer William Reese, will be auctioned beginning next month at Christie's in New York City. The lots include Paul Revere's engraving of the 1770 Boston Massacre; and the first New England broadside of the Declaration of Independence. Correspondent Serena Altschul looks at some priceless history up for sale. For more info: NATURE: TBD IN HIS OWN WORDS: Heavy metal and bluegrass guitarist John 5 on his musical obsessionsThe virtuoso guitarist, who grew up watching "Hee Haw," is as adept at shredding rock riffs as he is country and jazz. In this online exclusive, John Lowery (whose stage name is John 5) talks with CBS News' Jake Barlow about his musical obsessions. (With video.) For more info: "HERE COMES THE SUN": "The Godfather" anniversary and some true rock stars (Video)It's been 50 years since "The Godfather" premiered in 1972. Tracy Smith found out from famed director Francis Ford Coppola that the classic almost never got made. We also take you inside a display of dazzling gems – you might even call them rock stars. The Emmy Award-winning "CBS Sunday Morning" is broadcast on CBS Sundays beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET. Executive producer is Rand Morrison. DVR Alert! Find out when "Sunday Morning" airs in your city "Sunday Morning" also streams on the CBS News app beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET. (Download it here.) Full episodes of "Sunday Morning" are now available to watch on demand on CBSNews.com, CBS.com and Paramount+, including via Apple TV, Android TV, Roku, Chromecast, Amazon FireTV/FireTV stick and Xbox. Follow us on Twitter; Facebook; Instagram; YouTube; TikTok; and at cbssundaymorning.com. You can also download the free "Sunday Morning" audio podcast at iTunes and at Play.it. Now you'll never miss the trumpet!