The U.S. economy contracted in the first three months of the year as falling exports and a decrease in government spending took a toll. The gross domestic product shrank at annualized rate of 1.4%, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. It's the first contraction since the coronavirus-driven recession of the second quarter of 2020. GDP — the sum of all goods and services produced in the country — was dragged down by a sharp drop in exports, slower restocking  of goods in stores and  warehouses and decreased spending by federal, state and local governments, the Commerce Department said. An increase in imports, which are a  subtraction in the calculation of GDP, also pulled down the growth number. The contraction was a surprise for many economists, who had predicted weak economic growth in the first quarter. "A few temporary  factors — trade,  inventories, and government — caused the economy to shrink   in the first quarter. There was a huge increase in the trade deficit  in  the quarter as imports soared thanks to strong demand from U.S.  consumers  and businesses, while exports fell as the global economy  continues to  struggle in its recovery from the pandemic-caused   recession," Gus Faucher, chief economist at PNC, said in a note. On the other hand, consumers and businesses spent heavily, with personal consumption  expenditures, nonresidential fixed investment and residential  fixed investment all increasing. "Although  GDP fell in the first quarter, the U.S. economy is not in recession.  Underlying demand remains strong, and the labor market is in excellent  shape," Faucher said. Other indicators show that the economic expansion remains solid. The U.S. job market — the most important pillar of the economy  — is robust. This year, employers have added 560,000 new jobs a month, on average, while layoffs are near a 50-year low, hovering below 200,000 a week, as employers try to hold on to their workers. Workers have received solid wage increases, with hourly pay rising 5.6% over the last 12 months, the fastest rate in years. Still, galloping inflation of 8.5% has wiped out pay growth for many workers. The Federal Reserve is moving quickly to raise interest rates to cool down inflation. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell has signaled the nation's central bank is prepared to hike its key interest rate twice as fast as typical, when its rate-setting body meets in May. Economists expect the rate hikes to proceed despite the unexpected slowdown in growth. "The  unexpectedly severe 1.4% annualised decline in first-quarter GDP growth  probably won't stop the Fed from hiking interest rates by 50 [basis points] next  week, since officials will chalk it up to the temporary impact of  Omicron and point to the strength of underlying demand — with the growth  rate of sales to private domestic purchasers accelerating to a very  healthy 3.7%," Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note. In the second half of the year, the economy faces pressures that have heightened worries about  its fundamental health and raised concerns about a possible recession. Inflation is squeezing households as gas and food prices spike,  borrowing costs mount and the global economy is rattled by Russia's  invasion of Ukraine and China's COVID-19 lockdowns. With reporting by the Associated Press.