At least 10 people were shot and over a dozen suffered other injuries  when a gunman opened fire on a subway train in Brooklyn, New York, on Tuesday morning, authorities said. Some people were being treated for smoke inhalation from a smoke bomb and other injuries from the panic that ensued, the fire department said. Five people were in critical but stable condition, authorities said. A suspect was not in custody. New York Police Commissioner Keechant Sewell said the suspect was described as a Black male, approximately 5 feet, 5 inches tall with a heavy build who was wearing a green construction-type vest and a gray hooded sweatshirt. Authorities believe the suspect may be using a U-Haul with Arizona license plate AL31408, a law enforcement source told CBS News. They are looking for the vehicle. Sewell told reporters the gunman put on what appeared to be a gas mask on a Manhattan-bound subway train in Brooklyn just before 8:24 a.m. and opened a canister, which filled the train car with smoke. The gunman then opened fire, striking people on the subway and the 36th Street station platform, Sewell said. The shooting wasn't being investigated as an act of terrorism at this time, Sewell said. "We do not know the motive at this time, but we're not ruling anything out," she said. Sewell said people with photos and videos of the shooting or any related information were encouraged to contact the police department's Crime Stoppers Program. A law enforcement source tells CBS News a Glock semi-automatic handgun that had apparently jammed, and a tote-like bag with a hatchet, pepper spray, two gas canisters and a smoke grenade were found at the scene. There's a heavy police presence in the Sunset Park neighborhood. Photos from the scene showed people tending to bloodied passengers lying on the floor of the station. The D, N, and R subway trains are holding in stations in both directions in Brooklyn, and there are other delays as well. President Biden acknowledged the shooting Tuesday afternoon during a speech in Iowa. "Jill and I, my wife Jill and I, are praying for those that are injured and all those touched by that trauma," he said. "And we're grateful for all the first responders who jumped into action, including civilians, civilians who didn't hesitate help their fellow passengers and try to shield them. My team has been in touch with Mayor [Eric] Adams, and New York's police commissioner, and the Department of Justice and the FBI are working closely with the NYPD on the ground." -Pat Milton contributed reporting. The Associated Press contributed reporting.