A shooting on Friday afternoon left at least four people wounded in Northwest Washington, D.C. The suspect, who was not identified, died of a suspected self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to officials. During a Friday night press conference, police chief Robert J. Contee said the suspect was located in his apartment, along with over six firearms and multiple rounds of ammunition. A preliminary investigation suggests the weapons were purchased legally. Police tweeted a photo of the recovered weapons. "This was very much a sniper-type setup," Contee said, confirming that the suspect used a tripod and their intent was to kill and hurt members of the community. Contee also said the suspect appears to have either livestreamed or recorded and posted a video of the shooting online. Officials have not yet identified a motive in the shooting. Earlier, police named Raymond Spencer, 23, of Fairfax, Virginia, as a person of interest. Police did not identify him as the suspect, but said he is no longer being sought. The investigation into the shooting is ongoing. There is no longer a threat to the public, Contee confirmed. At around 3:20 p.m. local time, police responded to reports of gunshots near Connecticut Avenue and Van Ness Street NW. A woman in her 30s, a woman in her 60s, a 54-year-old man — who is a retired D.C. police officer, according to Contee — and a 12-year-old girl were wounded in the shooting. The woman in her 60s was treated at the scene. The three others were transported to local hospitals and are in stable condition, assistant police chief Stuart Emerman said earlier Friday. The shooting occurred near the University of the District of Columbia and an independent college preparatory school. Both were on lockdown for several hours. Contee said Friday night that nearly all of the prep school students have been reunited with their families. It is not clear whether the suspect had any ties to the schools. During an afternoon press conference, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser expressed concern for those wounded. "We are praying for their health and wellbeing," she said. Videos and photos shared to Twitter showed officials entering a residential building in the area, as well as evacuating local residents. Uniformed U.S. Secret Service officers and the FBI Washington Field also responded to the scene. Police have asked anyone with information about the incident to call the D.C. Police Department.