Kyiv, Ukraine — Ukraine's leader accused Russia of trying to humiliate the United Nations by raining missiles on Kyiv during a visit by Secretary-General António Guterres, an attack that shattered the capital's tentative return to normality as the focus of the war moved east. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukraine's forces were holding off Russia's attempted advance in the south and east, as efforts continued to secure safe passage for residents of the key coastal city of Mariupol, which has been largely reduced to rubble in a 2-month-long siege. Hundreds of soldiers and civilians, many of them wounded, continue to resist bombardment inside a steel mill in Mariupol, CBS News correspondent Chris Livesay reports. Russia pounded targets all over Ukraine on Thursday, including the attack on Kyiv that struck a residential high-rise and another building. Mayor Vitali Klitschko said Friday that one body was found in the rubble of the attack. Ten people were wounded, including at least one who lost a leg, according to Ukraine's emergency services. Moscow said it used "high-precision, long-range air-based weapons" in the attack, according to Agence France-Presse. In an apparent reference to the same strike, Russia's Defense Ministry said Friday that it had destroyed "production buildings" at the Artem defense factory in Kyiv. U.S.-funded Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty said Friday that one of its producers, Vera Gyrych, was killed when a Russian missile hit her house during Thursday's attack on Kyiv, AFP reports. The boldest Russian bombardment of the capital since Moscow's forces retreated weeks ago came barely an hour after Zelenskyy held a news conference with Guterres, who toured some of the destruction in and around Kyiv and condemned attacks on civilians. "This says a lot about Russia's true attitude towards global institutions, about attempts of Russian authorities to humiliate the U.N. and everything that the organization represents," Zelenskyy said in an overnight video address to the nation. "Therefore, it requires corresponding powerful reaction." Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko derided the attack as equivalent to Russian President Vladimir Putin showing Guterres "his middle finger." Meanwhile, AFP says the president of the host nation of this fall's G20 summit, Indonesia's Joko Widodo, said Friday he'd invited Zelenskyy to attend, confirming earlier word from Zelenskyy along those lines. It was unclear whether he would. Widodo said Russian President Vladimir Putin has confirmed that he'll be there. Russia is a G20 member. Ukraine isn't. One aim of Guterres' visit to Kyiv was to secure the evacuation of people from the ruined southern port city of Mariupol, including a shattered steelworks where Ukrainian defenders are holed up and hundreds of civilians are also sheltering, It was unclear whether it had borne fruit. Previous evacuation attempts have collapsed. But Zelenskyy's office said plans were in place yet again for an evacuation of civilians from the plant Friday, AFP reports. Mariupol has seen some of the most dramatic suffering of the war. Under siege since the early days of the invasion, many of its residents became trapped with scarce access to food, water, medicine or electricity. An estimated 100,000 people are believed to still be in the city, and the city council warned Thursday that a lack of safe drinking water or a working sewer system could lead to outbreaks of deadly diseases such as cholera and dysentery. It added that bodies were decaying under the rubble. Russian forces largely control the city, but some 2,000 Ukrainian fighters are holed up at the steel plant, the last known pocket of resistance. About 1,000 civilians are with them, and the fighters said recent concentrated bombings killed and wounded people. Video posted online by Ukraine's Azov Regiment inside the steel plant showed people combing through the rubble to remove the dead and help the wounded. The regiment said the Russians hit an improvised underground hospital and its operating room, killing an unspecified number of people. The video couldn't be independently verified. The governor of Ukraine's central Dnipropetrovsk region, Valentyn Reznichenko, said two towns there were hit by Russian Grad rockets on Friday. There was no immediate word on casualties or damage. Separately, the governor of Russia's Kursk region, Roman Starovoit, said a border post came under mortar fire from Ukraine and that Russian border forces returned fire. He said there were no casualties on the Russian side. That came a day after explosions were reported across the country - in Polonne in the west, Chernihiv in the north near the border with Belarus, and Fastiv, a large railway hub southwest of the capital. The mayor of Odesa, in southern Ukraine, said rockets were intercepted by air defenses. Ukrainian authorities also reported intense Russian fire in the Donbas - the eastern industrial heartland that the Kremlin says is its main objective - and near Kharkiv, a northeastern city outside the Donbas that is seen as key to the offensive. In Kyiv, explosions shook the city and flames poured out the windows of the residential high-rise and another building. The capital had been relatively unscathed in recent weeks since Moscow refocused its efforts on seizing all of the Donbas. The explosions in northwestern Kyiv's Shevchenkivsky district came as residents have been increasingly returning to the city. Cafes and other businesses have reopened, and a growing numbers of people have been out and about, enjoying the spring weather. On his visit to Ukraine, Guterres surveyed the destruction in small towns outside the capital that saw some of the worst horrors of the first onslaught of the war.  He condemned the atrocities committed in towns like Bucha, where evidence of mass killings of civilians was found after Russia withdrew in early April in the face of unexpectedly stiff resistance. "Wherever there is a war, the highest price is paid by civilians," the U.N. chief lamented. On Friday, the secretary general's spokesperson, Stephane Dujarric, spoke with Mola Lenghi and Michelle Miller from Rzeszow, Poland. Dujarric said that Guterres' meeting with Zelenskyy in Kyiv lasted an hour and a half and he told the president that the U.N. was scaling up humanitarian aid and they also discussed how to get a civilians out of the steel plant in Mariupol. "We have condemned and will continue to condemn these missile strikes on what is or apparently is pretty clearly, civilian infrastructure," Dujarric said. On the meeting of Guterres with Putin earlier in the week, Dujarric said, "There was a agreement in principle from the Russian Federation, that the U.N. would work with the International Committee of the Red Cross, and Russia and Ukraine" to evacuate civilians from the steel plant. "But let's be clear, a meeting is not going to end with this conflict, meetings are not ending this conflict. What will end this conflict is when Russia decides to end this conflict," he said. "What we saw firsthand yesterday was the devastation, the heartbreaking devastation of just a few villages around Kyiv." CBS News' Pam Falk contributed to this report.