Yep, red carpets are having a comeback moment. After years of COVID-19 setbacks that kept glamour to a minimum, the 64th Annual Grammy Awards, set in glitzy Las Vegas, offered entertainers a chance to get bold, and they didn't disappoint. From veteran DJs to this year's country-pop "it girls," here's who showed up — and showed up big. Justin Bieber and Hailey Bieber attend the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Bieber's look included Crocs by Balenciaga, according to The New York Times. Lady Gaga attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She was co-nominated for record of the year. Singer Olivia Rodrigo arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. The 19-year-old won the award Sunday for best pop solo performance for her viral hit "Drivers License." Chloe Bailey attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Rapper Megan Thee Stallion attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. She was nominated for a best rap performance award. Singer-songwriter Billie Eilish arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. She was in the running for record of the year, among other honors. Singer Dua Lipa attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She was slated to appear as a presenter. Singer H.E.R. arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. The recent Oscar winner was up for album of the year. Rapper Saweetie arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She was up for best new artist. SZA attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. She collaborated on several Grammy-nominated projects. The wildly popular BTS attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. The group was in the running for best pop duo or group performance. Chrissy Teigen and John Legend attend the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Legend recently received the Recording Academy Global Impact Award. Recent Oscar winner Ahmir "Questlove" Thompson attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. He won a Grammy for best music film. Kourtney Kardashian and Travis Barker arrive for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Jack Harlow and Lil Nas X attend the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. The latter was up for record of the year. Halsey attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She was up for best alternative music album. Actress Rachel Zegler arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Zegler stars as Maria in the remake of the classic film musical "West Side Story." Valentina Ferrer attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. The model and host wore Givenchy. Ferrer hams it up with partner J Balvin on the Grammys red carpet. Grammy nominee Balvin performed at the event. Lamyia Good and singer-songwriter Eric Bellinger arrive for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Bellinger was nominated for best progressive R&B album. Rapper Doja Cat arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. She was up for record of the year. Sean Paul attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. He was up for best reggae album. Snoh Aalegra attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. She was up for a Grammy for best R&B performance. English actress Cynthia Erivo arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She wore custom Louis Vuitton. Elle King attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. She was co-nominated for best country duo or group performance. Yola attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. She was up for two awards. DJ D-Nice arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. Kelsea Ballerini attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. Musician and producer Finneas attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. He's a frequent collaborator with sister Billie Eilish. Singer-songwriter Tayla Parx arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. She appears on a Justin Bieber album that is nominated for a Grammy. The Kid Laroi attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. The Kid Laroi was up for best new artist. Paris Hilton attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. Melody Thornton attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She rose to fame as a member of the all-woman pop group Pussycat Dolls. DJ Marshmello arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. The group Bomba Estéreo attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. The group was nominated for best Latin rock or alternative album. St. Vincent attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She won a Grammy for best alternative music album. Benny Blanco attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. He collaborated with Justin Bieber on a nominated album. Avril Lavigne attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She is a past nominee. Laverne Cox attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She wore John Galliano. Multitalented musician Jon Batiste arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. He was up for record of the year. Chelsea Handler attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She was nominated for best comedy album. Producer and musician Jack Antonoff attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. He later won a producing award. Omer Fedi and Addison Rae attend the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. Fedi collaborated with Lil Nat X on several nominated projects. Michelle Zauner of US-Korean pop band Japanese Breakfast arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. She was co-nominated for best new artist. Leon Bridges attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. He was nominated for best R&B album. Singer and actress Cheri Moon arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She was nominated for best children's album. DJ Diplo arrives for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. Mayer Hawthorne attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. He collaborated with Doja Cat on her nominated album. Donatella Versace attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She was a co-presenter at the ceremony. Ty Dolla $ign attends the 64th Annual GRAMMY Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena. He collaborated on several nominated projects. Maren Morris attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. She and husband Ryan Hurd were nominated for a country duet performance. US singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile (right) and wife Catherine Shepherd arrive for the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Carlile was nominated for record of the year. Blues Traveler attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. The group was nominated for traditional blues album. Mickey Guyton attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Guyton was nominated for best solo country performance. Lenny Kravitz attends the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. He was slated to appear as a presenter.