Facebook parent  Meta's stock is soaring after the company reported first-quarter profits and daily user counts that beat Wall Street's expectations. Shares were up sharply in after-hours  trading, going up as much as 15% above their closing price. That's despite the company's slowest revenue growth  since going public a decade ago. Meta earned $7.47 billion in the  January-March period, down 21% from $9.5 billion during the same period a year earlier. Revenue rose 7% to $27.91 billion — the slowest  growth rate in a decade for the online advertising powerhouse that  generally reports sales growth in the double digits. Russia's war in Ukraine was a hit to revenue, CEO Mark Zuckerberg said. "We've been blocked in  Russia, and we decided to stop accepting ads from Russian advertisers  globally," Zuckerberg told investors on a call Wednesday. Meta's results, while mixed, mark a turnaround from the last three months of 2021, when Facebook reported a drop in users and projected spending up to $10 billion in one year to build out metaverse-related technology. In March 2022, Facebook had 1.96 billion daily active users on average, an increase of 4% year-over-year. That served to reassure investors that last year's decline was a blip, rather than a sign of things to come. The company spent $2.9 billion that quarter on Reality Labs. That trend should continue, as Zuckerberg told investors he expects revenue from the company's social apps to fund VR development for the metaverse for the next few years. "I recognize it's expensive to build this — it's something that's never  been built before and it's a new paradigm for computing and social  connection," he said. Meta cut a sharp contrast with Google parent Alphabet, which on  Monday reported disappointing earnings, with profit  below Wall Street's expectations. Google also reported a revenue growth  slowdown, but for Meta this appeared to have been mitigated by an  increase in daily active users that "was enough to send the shorts  covering and the stock surging," said Jesse Cohen, senior analyst at  Investing.com. "That being said, it was a mixed report overall as the social media  giant continues to struggle with slowing revenue growth amid reduced ad  spending amid the current inflationary environment," Cohen said. Recent privacy changes by Apple have made it harder for companies  like Meta to track people for advertising purposes, which also puts  pressure on the company's revenue. For months now, Meta has been warning  investors that its revenue can't continue to grow at the same breakneck pace  they are accustomed to, so it's likely that the quarter's single-digit  revenue growth was already baked into investor expectations. Shares of the Menlo Park, California-based company rose $27.12, or 15.5%, to $202.07 in after-hours trading. The stock has taken a hit this month amid news of Elon Musk's Twitter  buyout and ended regular trading at $174.95 — down 48% since the  beginning of the year. CBS News' Musadiq Bidar and Irina Ivanova contributed reporting.