April 8 is National Empanada Day – the perfect excuse for this savory recipe for Cuban-Style Picadillo Empanadas, shared with "Sunday Morning" readers by Nashville-based chef Rita Martinez, a.k.a "The Salty Cubana." A first-generation Cuban American, Martinez was raised in Miami, Florida, in the heart of Little Havana. She told "CBS Sunday Morning," "I was so fortunate to be surrounded by my culture growing up; it's something I'm very proud of. If you wanted a snack there were always empanadas around. "I learned to make empanadas with my grandmothers. Homemade empanadas were a rare occasion because they were a labor of love. As a child, empanadas, to me, they take me home – the crunch, the savoriness, the saltiness of it all. It just gives you that feeling of comfort of home." To watch Martinez's instructions on preparing Cuban-Style Picadillo Empanadas, click on the video player below: "Cuban empanadas begin with a dough that's very similar to its Galician grandpa. We have an array of fillings. Everything from spinach and cheese to seafood to ham and, of course, our take on the almighty picadillo – a stewed ground beef filling cooked up with bell peppers, onions, copious amounts of garlic, and a sprinkle of raisins." She notes: What You'll Need: Kitchen ScaleMeasuring cups & spoonsBowls for mixing and waterStand mixer with the dough paddle if you have onePlastic wrap, large ziplock bag or airtight bowlRolling pin & bench scraperLarge 5-6" cookie cutterDeep cast iron skilletFrying thermometerPaper towels for draining. Ingredients: For the Dough: 890g all-purpose flour25g baking powder20g salt35g cane sugar110g (roughly 8 Tbsps. or 1 stick) unsalted butter380g water2 cups vegetable oil for frying in skillet (preferably canola) For Picadillo Filling: 40ml extra virgin olive oil200g large yellow onion, peeled and diced160g red bell pepper, diced5 cloves garlic, minced20g salt3.5g black pepper16 oz. pound ground beef2 bay leaves56g tomato paste1 Tbsp. smoked paprika1 teaspoon dried oregano1 teaspoon ground cumin1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg1 1/2 teaspoon red wine vinegar2 large tomatoes, coarsely diced50g capers with ¼ cup of juice½ cup pimento, diced75g dried raisins Instructions: For Filling: For the Dough: Assembly: Makes about 2 cups Ingredients: ½ cup minced yellow onion½ cup chopped carrot greens (or flat-leaf parsley)1 Tablespoon chopped oregano½ Tablespoon finely grated or minced garlic1 ½ teaspoon kosher salt1 teaspoon ground black pepper½ teaspoon red pepper flakes½ cup rice vinegar1 cup extra-virgin olive oil Instructions: For more info: