Oil prices surged nearly 5% and stock prices dropped after  Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized the independence of  rebel-held regions of Ukraine, raising fears that a full-scale invasion  was near. Russia  is a major energy producer and the tensions over Ukraine have brought  wide swings in volatile energy prices — on top of the inevitable risks of  a broader conflict which would pull down economic activity across Europe and globally. Oil  prices had already risen to their highest level since 2014.  By early Tuesday, the advance of U.S. benchmark crude oil had abated  slightly. It was up about $3, or 3.5%, to about $94 per barrel in  electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The price of  Brent crude, the standard for international oils, gained about $4.50, or  nearly 5%, to hit about $98 per barrel. Markets in Europe and  Asia shuddered as Putin moved to secure Russia's hold on Ukraine's  rebel regions, adding to fears of a full-scale invasion. Those  actions have undermined hopes for averting a conflict that could cause  massive casualties, energy shortages on the European continent and economic chaos  around the globe. The  U.S. and European Union condemned Russia and prepared to hit back with  sanctions. On Tuesday, Germany suspended the approval process for the  Nord Stream 2 pipeline that would bring Russian natural gas to Europe. Western powers have feared Russia might use skirmishes in Ukraine's   eastern regions as a pretext for an attack on the former Soviet state, which has   defied Moscow's attempts to pull it back into its orbit. Putin on Monday claimed that Ukraine's modern borders were put into being by the USSR and said that Russian troops in Luhansk and Donetsk were necessary to protect the rights of Russian-speaking people in the region. Putin  received no support for his actions from members of the U.N. Security Council at an  emergency meeting Monday night. U.S. stocks wobbled in early morning trading, with the major stock indexes see-sawing between gains and losses. Equity markets, which were closed Monday for Presidents' Day, capped a week of volatile trading with a broad sell-off on Friday, in which the  S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average both slipped 0.7%.  The  Nasdaq composite bore the brunt of the selling, skidding 1.2%. Tuesday's biggest losses have been in Russia, where the MOEX index was down 5% after losing nearly 11% on Monday. The ruble was 2.5% lower. "The  current situation is tightening financial conditions for Russian  companies, destabilizing markets and reducing business predictability,"  Elena Nazarova of FxPro said in a commentary. But  Britain's FTSE 100 was up about 0.35% to 7,510.59, while Germany's DAX  rose slightly to 14,743.53 and the CAC 40 in Paris was flat at 6,788.13. In  Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei 225 index dropped 1.7% to 26,449.61 while the Hang  Seng in Hong Kong regained some lost ground to close 2.7% lower at  23,520.00. South Korea's Kospi lost 1.4% to 2,706.79 and the Shanghai  Composite index fell 1% to 3,457.15. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 lost 1%  to 7,161.30. The  turmoil in Ukraine has upped uncertainty at a time when investors  already are jittery over how the world's central banks, especially the  U.S. Federal Reserve, will act to counter surging inflation while  coronavirus outbreaks fueled by the highly contagious omicron variant  cloud the outlook for many countries. "Indeed,  a full-scale invasion of Ukraine by Russia will leave many central  banks with itchy hiking trigger fingers in a quandary," Jeffrey Halley  of Oanda said in a report. Higher oil prices complicate the already-jittery situation. Russia produces about 12% of the world's crude oil, and any disruption would reverberate globally. Many  Asian economies depend on oil and gas imports, and even if those don't  come from Russia, the spillover effects on will raise  energy costs at a time when countries are still barely recovering from  the pandemic. "Crucially,  while Russia may not be the most prominent source of direct energy  imports for (emerging markets in) Asia, its sheer heft as a global  producer/exporter means energy shocks emanating from Russian supply  disruptions will nevertheless be disproportionally large," Mizuho Bank's  Vishnu Varathan said in a report. "So Ukraine risks are consequential one way or another," he said. Gas prices in the U.S. have already moved higher, with the average price at the pump at its highest level since 2014 and diesel prices above $5 a gallon in many parts of California. Russia also exports coal to India and Vietnam and is the fourth largest supplier of oil to South Korea, Varathan said. On  other fronts, Treasury yields have been falling as investors shift  money into the safety of U.S. bonds. The yield on the 10-year Treasury,  which affects rates on mortgages and other consumer loans, was at 1.90%  by early Tuesday, down from 1.93% on Monday.