The 2022 Winter Olympics officially kicked off with the opening ceremony at Beijing National Stadium on Friday, February 4, 2022. In this photo, Team USA flag bearers Brittany Bowe and John Shuster lead the American athletes into the stadium for the traditional Parade of Nations. Fireworks are seen over National Stadium during the opening ceremony of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games. This exterior view of the stadium's design shows why it is widely known as the Bird's Nest. Team USA, with flag bearers Brittany Bowe and John Shuster framed through one of the Olympic rings, enters the stadium during the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics. Shuster, a curler, is participating in his fifth Olympics. Bowe, a three-time Olympian speedskater, stepped in as flag bearer after the original choice, Elana Meyers Taylor, tested positive for COVID-19 and had to miss the opening ceremony. The Beijing 2022 mascot, an ice-covered panda named Bing Dwen Dwen, is seen during the opening ceremony. According to Olympic organizers: "'Bing' means ice and also symbolises purity and strength, and 'Dwen Dwen' represents children. The mascot embodies the strength and willpower of athletes and will help to promote the Olympic spirit." Flag bearers Dave Ryding and Eve Muirhead lead the team from Great Britain into the stadium during the opening ceremony — wearing Union Jack flag sweaters to match. Russia's flag bearers Olga Fatkulina and Vadim Shipachev lead their delegation during the opening ceremony. Russian athletes are officially representing the Russian Olympic Committee, or ROC, instead of the nation itself after Russia was hit with a four-year ban for falsifying data on doping. Russian ice hockey player Vadim Shipachyov and speed skater Olga Fatkulina carry the ROC flag during the Parade of Nations at the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Team Jamaica flag bearers Benjamin Alexander and Jazmine Fenlator-Victorian during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Jamaica is fielding a four-man bobsled team for the first time since 1998, along with competing in two-man bobsled and woman's monobob. Performers dressed as hockey players take part in the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Performers take part in the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Flag bearers Brittany Bowe and John Shuster lead Team USA during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. More than 150 athletes on the 2022 U.S. Olympic team were slated to take part in the opening ceremony. Members of Team USA pose for photos during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. An overhead view of Beijing National Stadium as Team USA marches in during the opening ceremony. The U.S. has over 220 athletes participating in the Winter Games, but there is no delegation of government officials in the stands after the Biden administration announced a diplomatic boycott over China's "egregious human rights abuses." "The athletes on Team USA have our full support. We will be behind them 100% as we cheer them on from home," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. Canada's flag bearers Charles Hamelin and Marie-Philip Poulin parade during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Canada, a winter sports powerhouse, will be competing in 109 events. Torch bearers Dinigeer Yilamujiang and Zhao Jiawen carry the Olympic torch during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Flag bearers Tingyu Gao and Dan Zhao of the host nation, China, lead their team during the opening ceremony. Three generations of a family watch the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics in their living room in Shanghai, China, on February 4, 2022. International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach and China's President Xi Jinping (front row center) wave during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. China has faced protests and a U.S. diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Games over its record of human rights abuses, including repression of its Uyghur Muslim minority, which the U.S. has called a genocide. Troops prepare to raise the flag of the People's Republic of China at the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. On the day of the opening ceremony in Beijing, protesters in cities around the world staged demonstrations against China's record of human rights abuses. In this photo, Tibetan Youth Congress activists stomp on a Chinese national flag during a protest in New Delhi, India. Activists protest outside the Consulate of China in Los Angeles, California, on the eve of the Beijing Olympics. Protesters criticized the decision to award the Games to China amid the country's record of human rights violations in Hong Kong and Tibet, as well as allegations of crimes against humanity against Uyghurs and other Turkic Muslims in the northwestern region of Xinjiang. Read more: For China's Uyghurs, "the genocide doesn't stop" for the Olympics An activist in front of Berlin's Brandenburg Gate during a protest over China's human rights record on February 4, 2022. Protesters hold a banner decrying China's human rights record during a demonstration against the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in Lausanne, Switzerland, ahead of the opening of the Beijing Winter Olympics. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres is seen on a giant screen during the opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympic Games in Beijing, China. South Korea's flag bearers Kwak Yoon-gy and Kim A-lang lead the delegation during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. North Korea will not be taking part; it was suspended by the International Olympic Committee after skipping the Tokyo Summer Games. Britain's flag bearers Eve Muirhead and David Ryding lead the delegation during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Team GB is fielding a team of 50 athletes and reserves, including four who have won medals in past Olympics, BBC News reports. Flag bearer Michela Moioli leads Team Italy — decked out in cloaks to match — during the opening ceremony of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. Flag bearer Nathan Crumpton of American Samoa enters the stadium during the opening ceremony. Crumpton, a skeleton racer, marched shirtless despite the freezing temperatures in Beijing. Romania's flag bearers Raluca Stramaturaru and Paul Constantin Pepene lead the delegation during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games on February 4, 2022. Fireworks illuminate the night sky and form the word "Spring" over the Beijing National Stadium, known as the Bird's Nest, during the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympic Games on February 4, 2022. Performers create a flower display with LED lights during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Performers with LED lights illuminate the inside of Beijing National Stadium during the opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Norway's flag bearers Kjetil Jansrud and Maiken Caspersen Falla parade with their teammates during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. The delegation from Kazakhstan takes part in the parade of athletes during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Flag bearers Arisa Go and Akito Watabe of Japan lead their team during the opening ceremony of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. Ireland's flag bearers Brendan Newby and Elsa Desmond lead the delegation in the parade of athletes during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Russian President Vladimir Putin gives two thumbs up as he watches the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics from the stands in National Stadium. Vladimir Putin, president of Russia, looks on from the stands during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Flag bearers Atefeh Ahmadi and Seyed Sattar Seyd of Iran lead their delegation during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Flag bearers Alexandra Nazarova and Oleksandr Abramenko lead Team Ukraine during the athletes' parade at the opening ceremony of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. Flag bearers Apostolos Angelis and Maria Ntanou of Greece march during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Flag bearers Andres Ambuhl and Wendy Holdener of Switzerland lead their team during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Flag bearers Noa Szollos Evgeni Krasnopolski of Israel lead their teammates into Beijing National Stadium during the opening ceremony of the Winter Games.. Team Great Britain athlete Shelley Rudman joins local school children at The National Lottery Watch Party in Nottingham, England, to celebrate the start of the Winter Olympics in Beijing on February 4, 2022. Puerto Rico flag bearers Kellie Delka and William C. Flaherty march in the opening ceremony. They are the only two athletes representing Puerto Rico at the Beijing Winter Games. Delka competes in skeleton and Flaherty in Alpine skiing. Flag bearers Lindsay van Zundert and Kjeld Nuis of the Netherlands take part in the Parade of Nations during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Olympic Games. Flag bearers Furkan Akar and Aysenur Duman of Turkey carry their flag during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Flag bearers Kevin Rolland and Tessa Worley of France lead their team during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Yohan Goncalves Goutt of Timor-Leste carries the flag during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. An Alpine skier, he is the only athlete representing his island nation at the Games. A wide view inside Beijing National Stadium as Team China enters during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Perfectly synchronized performers at the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Performers create a flower display with LED lights during the opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympic Games at the National Stadium. Performers encircle a giant snowflake during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Olympic Games. Flag bearers Aruwin Salehhuddin and Jeffrey Webb of Team Malaysia carry their flag during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Ice hockey player Valtteri Filppula of Finland carries the Finnish national flag during the Parade of Nations at the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Team Canada marches in during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics at the Beijing National Stadium. Flag bearers Brittany Bowe and John Shuster of Team USA lead the team during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. Performers dressed as hockey players perform during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. A large display of the Olympic rings logo is seen inside the stadium during the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics.