The 74th annual Emmy Awards unveiled its highly-anticipated group of nominees on Tuesday morning, with a roster of familiar faces and titles joined by an already critically-acclaimed slate of newcomers. This year's announcement, presented by "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" and "Curb Your Enthusiasm" stars Melissa Fumero and J.B. Smoove, saw the return of past victors like Jason Sudeikis, Jean Smart, Rachel Brosnahan and Zendaya, whose performance in the sophomore season of "Euphoria" earned her a second nomination for outstanding lead actress in a drama series. At 24, she became the youngest person in history to win the award for the same role in 2018. Alongside a handful of other shows and actors previously acknowledged at the Emmys, notable returning contenders include Netflix's "Stranger Things," HBO Max's "Succession," Donald Glover, for his performance in the long-awaited third installment of "Atlanta," and Isa Rae for "Insecure." Emmy-winner Julia Garner received a nod her portrayal of convicted fraudster Anna Delvey in "Inventing Anna" as well as another for "Ozark," while Sandra Oh and Jodie Comer each earned repeat nominations for "Killing Eve," which, despite usual praise for both its stars, was unexpected after mixed reviews of the final season. Celebrated sitcom "Abbott Elementary" received nominations in multiple categories, as did Hulu's dark comedy "Only Murders in the Building" and limited series "Dopesick," "Pam & Tommy," and "The Dropout," which respectively covered Purdue Pharma's role in the opioid crisis, the media firestorm around Pamela Anderson and Tommy Lee's leaked tape, and the rise and fall of Elizabeth Holmes' Silicon Valley startup Theranos. Ensemble favorites "The White Lotus" and "Yellowjackets," plus Netflix's popular dystopian horror series "Squid Game," were also recognized. The Emmys upcoming ceremony will take place on September 12, 2022, and is scheduled to broadcast live on both NBC and Peacock. See the complete list of nominations below.