After six months of tests and checkout, NASA's James Webb Space Telescope is finally ready to open a new window on the universe, capturing the faint light of the first stars and galaxies, probing the mysteries of black holes and studying the atmospheres of alien worlds. On Tuesday, NASA will unveil the first color images from the $10 billion observatory, photos expected to rival or surpass the first spectacular images from the repaired Hubble Space Telescope nearly three decades ago. "We're going to give humanity a new view of the cosmos, and it's a view that we've never seen before," NASA Administrator Bill Nelson told reporters in a preview briefing. "One of those images ... is the deepest image of our universe that has ever been taken. And we're only beginning to understand what Webb can and will do." Hubble went on to become one of the most iconic instruments in astronomical history, helping astronomers pin down the age of the universe, confirming the presence of supermassive black holes, capturing the deepest views of the cosmos ever collected and providing fly-by class images of planets in Earth's solar system. But Webb, operating at just a few degrees above absolute zero behind a tennis-court size sunshade, promises to push the boundaries of human knowledge even deeper with a 21.3-foot-wide segmented primary mirror capable of detecting the faint, stretched-out infrared light from the first generation of stars to light up after the Big Bang. Launched on Christmas Day, Webb is stationed in a gravitationally stable orbit nearly one million miles from Earth. For the past six months, engineers and scientists have been working through a complex series of deployments, activations and checkouts, fine tuning the telescope's focus and optimizing the performance of its four science instruments. The images released Tuesday, selected by an international team of astronomers, will "demonstrate to the world that Webb is, in fact, ready for science, and that it produces excellent and spectacular results," said Klaus Pontoppidan, Webb project scientist at the Space Telescope Science Institute. "And it's also to highlight the breadth, the sheer breadth of science that can be done with Webb and to highlight all of the four science instruments," he added. "And last but not least, to celebrate the beginning of normal science operations." The targets for Webb's first public images include: "The first images will include observations that span the range of Webb science themes," said Pontoppidan. "From the early universe, the deepest infrared view of the cosmos to date. We will also see an example of how galaxies interact and grow, and how these cataclysmic collisions between galaxies drive the process of star formation. "We'll see a couple of examples from the life cycle of stars, starting from the birth of stars, where Webb can reveal new, young stars emerging from their natal cloud of gas and dust, to the death of stars, like a dying star seeding the galaxy with new elements and new dust that may one day become part of new planetary systems." Last but not least, he said, the team will show off the first chemical fingerprints from the atmosphere of an exoplanet. One of the Hubble Space Telescope's most astonishing images was its initial "deep field" look at a tiny patch of seemingly empty sky over a 10-day period in 1995. To the amazement of professionals and the public alike, that long-exposure image revealed more than 3,000 galaxies of every shape, size and age, some of them the oldest, most distant ever seen. Subsequent Hubble deep fields pushed even farther back in time, detecting the faint light of galaxies that were shining within about 500 million years of the Big Bang. How stars formed and got organized so quickly into galactic structures is still a mystery, as is the development of the supermassive black holes at their cores. Webb's four instruments are expected to push the boundaries still closer to the beginning of galaxy formation. A test image from the telescope's Canadian-built Fine Guidance Sensor, an image that wasn't optimized for the detection of extremely faint objects, nonetheless revealed thousands of galaxies. Webb's look at SMACS 0723 is expected to demonstrate the enormous reach of the observatory. "This is really only the beginning, we're only scratching the surface," Pontoppidan said. "We have in the first images, a few days worth of observations. Looking forward, we have many years of observation, so we can only imagine what that will be."