Tops Friendly Market in Buffalo reopened Friday to customers two months after a mass shooting claimed the lives of 10 people and shuttered its doors, but some question if the move comes too soon following the deadly attack. Tops President John Persons said Thursday that the store's management team felt confident reopening the supermarket because store associates and local residents expressed a need for the store to reopen again just a day after the deadly attack, the Associated Press reported. But others question the reopening's timing. "We're pretty much shopping on people's blood," said Count Horne, an activist and retired police officer, according to the Associated Press. "I think that this is more about putting people to work rather than letting them heal. … Just two months ago, these people were running for their lives." On May 14, 18-year-old Payton Gendron arrived at Tops with ammunition and what authorities described as the "express purpose" of killing Black people. Ten people were killed in the attack and three others were wounded. Community members, local politicians and company leaders spoke at an hour-long ceremony held outside of the supermarket Thursday intended to "honor and respect all victims and impacted associates and community members," store officials said. Following the shooting, Tops Friendly Markets announced it would remain closed "until further notice." Store officials at the time said they were "unable to speak to a timeline for reopening" due to the store being "an active law enforcement investigation site," but noted that they were "committed to reopening up this community store." "When the time is right for all of us, we will reopen our doors on Jefferson Avenue. Until then, we remain here with you and for you in every way we possibly can," store officials said May 18. The supermarket has been fully renovated since the deadly attack and has added new security measures, such as enhanced video monitoring systems, an emergency evacuation alarm system, and additional emergency exits, Tops said in a news release. Persons said the store location on Jefferson Avenue has had its products and equipment emptied and restocked since the shooting, according to WKBW. He said employees who no longer feel comfortable returning to the location will have other stores to work at if they choose, WKBW reported.