Voters are going to the polls for primaries in five states on Tuesday, the biggest primary night so far in the 2022 midterm elections. Here are the primary results by state: Pennsylvania Polls closed at 8 p.m. ET in closely-watched Pennsylvania, the fifth-largest state by population and a perennial swing state. Republican Sen. Pat Toomey is retiring, leaving his seat open. Former President Trump has endorsed television personality Dr. Mehmet Oz, who has been locked in a vicious battle with hedge fund manager David McCormick, who had also sought Trump's endorsement. Amid their mudslinging, Kathy Barnette, a conservative who Steve Bannon once referred to as "ultra MAGA," has surged. A recent Fox News poll had Oz leading the field with 22%, followed by McCormick at 20%, Barnette at 19% and 18% undecided. Trump had initially endorsed Sean Parnell, who dropped out of the race in November after losing custody of his children. On the Democratic side, CBS News projects Lt. Gov. John Fetterman will win the nomination. Fetterman bested U.S. Rep. Conor Lamb and state Rep. Malcolm Kenyatta. Fetterman, who backed Sen. Bernie Sanders in 2016, on Friday suffered a stroke caused by a clot, and his campaign issued a statement on Tuesday saying he would be receiving a pacemaker with a defibrillator. Fetterman tweeted a photo of himself on Tuesday voting from the hospital with an emergency absentee ballot. Fetterman's wife, Gisele Barreto Fetterman, gave his victory speech Tuesday, since Fetterman is still hospitalized. The campaign also played a video of Fetterman thanking supporters. "This race we're running is a race for the future," said Gisele Barreto Fetterman. "It's a race for every job that has been lost, every factory that has been closed, every cost that has been rising, every worker that can't keep up. It's a race for a better Pennsylvania." President Joe Biden also sent out a message congratulating Fetterman, saying "Democrats are united around John, who is a strong nominee, will run a tough race, and can win in November." In the governor's race, Democratic Gov. Tom Wolfe is term-limited, and Democrats have united behind state Attorney General Josh Shapiro, who ran uncontested on their primary ballot. On the Republican side, CBS News projects Doug Mastriano will win. Establishment Republicans had worried the far-right, Trump-backed state senator couldn't win a general election. He defeated several challengers, including former Representative Lou Barletta, former U.S. Attorney Bill McSwain  and businessman Dave White. "Failed politicians and politics have stirred so many of us who wanted nothing to do with politics," Mastriano said in his victory speech. "There's this movement here that's going to shock the state here on November 8." In Democrat Lamb's seat, the swing 17th District in the Pittsburgh area, CBS News projects Chris Deluzio will win. He defeated Democratic National Committee member Sean Meloy. Three Republicans are running in the primary in the district: former local councilwoman Kathleen Coder, national security expert Jason Killmeyer and former township commissioner Jeremy Shaffer. In Pennsylvania's 12th District, progressive and Sanders-backed state Rep. Summer Lee is running to replace retiring Democratic Rep. Matt Doyle. But Doyle has backed attorney Steve Irwin. There are three other challengers running for the Democratic nomination: professor Jerry Dickinson, businessman Will Parker and nonprofit administrator Jeff Woodward. Kentucky Polls are now closed in Kentucky. In the Kentucky Senate primaries, CBS News projects Sen. Rand Paul will win the Republican nomination and CBS News projects Charles Booker, a progressive candidate who ran for the Democratic nomination to challenge Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell in 2020, will win the Democratic nomination. North Carolina CBS News projects Rep. Ted Budd, backed by former President Trump, will win the Republican nomination for Senate in North Carolina. CBS News projects Cheri Beasley will win the Democratic nomination for Senate in that state. The seat is open, with Republican Sen. Richard Burr retiring. In North Carolina's 11th district, CBS News projects Chuck Edwards will win, defeating incumbent freshman Rep. Madison Cawthorn. The Edwards campaign said Cawthorn had conceded. Republican Sen. Thom Tillis, who has been vocal in his disapproval of Cawthorn, backed Edwards, a state senator, in the primary, saying "unfortunately, Madison Cawthorn has fallen well short of the most basic standards Western North Carolina expects from their representatives, and voters now have several well-qualified candidates to choose from who would be a significant improvement." Cawthorn has been facing a number of scandals, from calling Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy a "thug," to getting caught driving with a revoked license, to bringing a loaded gun into a Charlotte airport to ethics complaints of alleged misconduct toward his staff. In North Carolina's 4th District, CBS projects state Sen. Valerie Foushee will win. She defeated Sen. Elizabeth Warren-backed Durham County Commissioner Nida Allam, who would have become the first Muslim woman to serve in public office in North Carolina, and "American Idol" contestant Clay Aiken. The current member of Congress, Democrat David Price, is retiring. In North Carolina's 13th District, outside of Raleigh, CBS News projects Bo Hines will win. Trump backed Hines, a 26-year-old and former college football recruit. Idaho Polls closed statewide at 11 p.m. ET in Idaho. Republican incumbent Gov. Brad Little is facing a primary challenge from Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin, who has Trump's endorsement and is running to the right of Little. In addition to McGeachin issuing two COVID executive orders when Little was out of the state, McGeachin has falsely claimed that the 2020 election was stolen. She's not the only one running statewide in Idaho to make those claims. Two of the three Republican candidates running to be Idaho's chief elections officer have falsely claimed that President Biden didn't fairly win the 2020 election. State Representative Dorothy Moon signed on to a letter from an Arizona lawmaker calling for a "50-state audit" of the 2020 election. Oregon Oregon, which has mail elections, had an 11 p.m. ET deadline for all ballots to be returned or postmarked. Oregon's 5th District member of Congress, Democrat Kurt Schrader, has the backing of President Joe Biden, but is facing a primary challenge from progressive Jamie McLeod Skinner. In Oregon's 6th District, state Representative Andrea Salinas and tech researcher Carrick Flynn are locked in one of the most expensive and contentious Democratic primaries in the country. Salinas has the backing of BOLD PAC, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus' campaign arm, while Flynn is endorsed by the House Majority PAC, a group aligned with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California. Sen. Jeff Merkley, a Democrat that has not endorsed in the primary, called the House Majority PAC's involvement "flat-out wrong."